--cd C:\Users\mishk\forensic-ai-search\backend
--cd C:\Users\mishk\forensic-ai-search\frontend
--npm start

--backend:
 1. pip install flask flask-cors sentence-transformers scikit-learn
 2.create 3 files (python and text)

 --run back and frontend 
  1.Terminal 1: 
    -cd C:\Users\mishk\forensic-ai-search\backend
    -python app.py
  2.Terminal 2: 
    -cd C:\Users\mishk\forensic-ai-search\frontend
    -npm start

    Overview:
    1. development environment
    The system was developed using Visual Studio Code as the primary development environment. 
    The frontend was built using React and executed via Node.js, while the backend was developed using Python Flask. 
    The application was run locally using terminal commands and tested on localhost, demonstrating a fully functional development workflow.

    2.Extent of own code
    AI =Libraries (Flask, React, SentenceTransformers) 
    Our logic = API design, integration, thresholds, UI, classification
    Approximately 70–80% of the system was independently developed and integrated. 
    External libraries such as SentenceTransformers, Flask, and React were used as supporting frameworks, while the core implementation 
    including API integration, semantic search logic, risk classification thresholds, and frontend-backend communication 
    was developed and adapted manually.

    3.Overall contribution to digital forensics
    Why our system matters in real investigation...
    Contributes to DF by improving the efficiency of evidence discovery in large datasets such as logs, emails and communication records.
    Traditional keyword search methods rely on exact matches, which may miss relevant evidence. The proposed AI system uses semantic 
    similarity to detect contextually related forensic evidence, giving investigators a chance to identify suspicious activity such as 
    credential leaks, unauthorized access, and data exfiltration more effectively and quickly.

    4.How much AI contributes to our solution
    The AI component is central to the system. It uses a Sentence Transformer model to convert forensic text into numerical embeddings 
    and applies cosine similarity to identify semantically related entries. The AI enables contextual understanding of forensic data, 
    allowing the system to detect related evidence even when exact keyword matches are not present.

    5.Demonstrate understanding of AI capability
    The AI capability implemented in this system is Natural Language Processing , specifically semantic embedding using Sentence Transformers. 
    Text data is transformed into high-dimensional vector representations, where semantically similar phrases are positioned closer together 
    in vector space. Cosine similarity is then used to measure the closeness between the user query and forensic records. This allows the 
    system to interpret meaning rather than relying on exact keyword matching.

    6.Data preprocessing / formatting
    Entails:cleaning text,tokenization concept,vector conversion,filtering thresholds
    Before applying AI processing, the dataset is preprocessed by removing unnecessary whitespace and standardising text format. Each forensic 
    log entry is converted into a clean text string. The Sentence Transformer model then converts these text entries into numerical embeddings. 
    During query processing, the input text is similarly encoded and compared using cosine similarity. A threshold is applied to filter out 
    low-relevance results, ensuring only meaningful forensic matches are returned.